{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf460
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red191\green191\blue191;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Methods for Body Mass Estimates:\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs20 \cf0 Body mass algorithm: A single body mass estimate per continent was derived by averaging male and female adult mass; if both were unavailable male mass was used in preference to female mass. \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Within continents, estimates were averaged across geographic localities. See J.Haskell and F.Smith for details.*\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 BATS: Data are averaged across continents, thus each species appears only once. These data are averaged across gender when both were available; otherwise female mass is used in preference to male mass \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
(our interpretation)\
* averaged the body mass of male & female at each geographic locality (within continents); then averaged the averages of each locality at the continental scale\
*For each continent averaged male and female separately; then averaged the averages of the male and female\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs32 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 A species specific body mass was obtained using an algorithm that prioritized the procedure in the following order: 1) A gender-specific estimate obtained by averaging male or female values reported from across different geographic localities, these were then averaged to obtain an overall species value, 2) When no geographic information was provided but gender-specific values were available, these were averaged for an overall species body mass estimate, 3) If both male and female masses were not available, male mass was used preferentially, averaging over geographic localities if such information was available, 4) If only female body mass was available, it was used, averaging over geographic localities as available. When museum records were utilized, averages were obtained for each gender across their range, and these were again averaged to obtain an overall species-specific value.
\f3  
\f2 The source of the value is line referenced in the dataset. In no instance did we use generic means as a proxy for a species average.
\f3  
\f2 Equal weight was given to male and female estimates; we did not use a weighted average to account for possible differences in sample size. For bats, if body mass estimates were not available for both females and males, female mass was used preferentially (i.e. the order of numbers 3 and 4 above were switched).
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Taxonomy:\
Extant Taxa: Wilson & Reeder; see newMOMmerged.csv\
Pleistocene Taxonomy: base upon literature reviews\
\
For species\'92 that have split into two:\
NEED THE RAW DATA!}